# Term Project
## Henry Jones

1) The big idea of my project is to create an application that will work seamlessly in entering whatever foods you ate on that given day, telling you how many calories you have consumed vs your set goal, and if you have fulfilled reccomended daily values of things like vitamins, protein, fiber, sugar and protein. That is the minimum viable product of what I am trying to create. From there I would like to add in a way to track excercise you did on a certain day and subtract out the calories you burned, I would also like to do something where it can reccomend certain food items that would help you fulfill the reccomended daily consumption of certain nutrients. For example if you didn't eat much vitamin c that day and have 200 calories left, it would reccomend eating an orange or something along those lines that will keep you under the daily value calories while fulfilling your vitamin c requirement.

2) From this project I would like to hone my skills using API's, one of the biggest challenges I forsee with this project is being able to translate what people have typed in to the correct food that they actually ate, being able to ensure it is the right item and portion size will be a big issue. So that will take a lot of learning about how to get the API to pull the right thing instead of some of the simpler uses we have had for API's in the past. It will also take a lot more work with Flask and HTML than I did on assignment 3, so I hope to learn a lot more about both of those things through this project.

3) I have already identified a free API that I think I am going to use to pull the nutrition facts of the food items. The API is called Chomp and seems like it will work well for what I need. From there I do not really know what my project will be structured like, it really all depends on how this info is selected and how I can manipulate it the way I need. I also dont really know what my flask app will look like, I do not know if the interface will have you enter the food items one at a time and be able to see the progress toward your daily goal after each item, or if it shows you after you enter everything, these are things that I will figure out as I go along.

4) Time is kind of limited for this project, it is due in 3 weeks, so by the 16th I hope to everything squared with the API and fully understanding how to pull each item effectively and prevent errors when pulling food items. Then by the end of the next week I would like to habe a functioning minimum viable product with a working flask app where you can enter foods and see your daily nutritional goals. Then with the last week before its due I would like to make it look better by adding more HTML and CSS and then add some of the other extensions I talked about above.

5) N/A I am working solo

6) I feel like the biggest risk with this project is that it is very hard to make the API to pull the correct food item unless the user types it in perfectly. Another risk is that I also have issues with getting the right serving size for every item and it only works with the default serving size. I also hope the API is not too limited in the database of foods that it has, if even like 15% of food items that a theoretical user would enter are not in the API database, than the usefullness of the software gets significantly decreased.

7) I think everything that we have covered in class has prepared me fairly well for this project, looking at the rest of the course content I do not think that much of it will be crucial for this project.